---
layout: post
title: "Research"
description: "projects"
research: true
category:
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}
<div class="bigspacer"></div>
<div class="bigspacer"></div>
<div class="bigspacer"></div>
---
# Symbiosis and the environment 

All animals and plants have established symbiotic relationships with microorganisms. Theses microorganisms indisputably impact the metabolism and heath of their host, each other and ultimate the environment. Research in the Sogin Lab @ UC Merced is centered on characterizing the metabolic interactions between eukaryotic hosts, their microbiomes and the habitat they live.

Host-symbiont-environmental interactions are a constant theme across research projects in the lab. That is because these biological interactions are intertwined. We seek to address the following aims in our lab:

1.	Define the spatial, temporal and taxonomic scales that influence the biodiversity of symbiotic interactions
2.	Define mechanisms that sustain these interactions
3.	Broaden our understanding how changing environmental conditions influences symbiotic unions 

---
## *Seagrass rhizosphers* 

Seagrasses evolved from terrestrial plants on at least three separate occasions and form the foundation of one of the most productive ecosystems on Earth. They play important roles in carbon sequestration, removal of water-based pollution through bioremediation, and stabilization of sediments. Recent seagrass microbiome work shows that marine plants develop intimate associations with microorganisms in the rhizosphere, the interface between plant roots and the sediment. On land, plants excrete organic compounds to their soils to attract beneficial microbiomes and to inhibit the growth of other organisms. Given that microbe-microbe and plant-microbe interactions are essential to maintaining plant health, research in the Sogin Lab aims to show how marine plants alter the chemistry of their sediments to select for a specific and beneficial consortium of microorganisms. Furthermore, we seek to identify key processes that influence the interactome of seagrass rhizospheres. 

---
## *Techniques and approaches*

Our tool kit for understanding host-microbe interactions centers around meta‘omics based approaches and physiological assays coupled to metabolomics. However, I firmly believe that the science (and questions) should guide the methods we employ and encourage my students to use a diversity of approaches to address the challenges they face in their research. 

Our primary activities include: 

- Metabolomic analysis with a focus on gas chromatography – mass spectrometry
- Metagenomics and metatranscriptomics 
- Cultivation and physiological experiments 
- Field-based research projects, including environmental sampling and manipulations


<div class="bigspacer"></div>
<div class="bigspacer"></div>
<div class="bigspacer"></div>

