---
layout: post
title: "Join"
description: "join us"
join: true
category: misc
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}
<div class="bigspacer"></div>
<div class="bigspacer"></div>
<div class="bigspacer"></div>

<a name="join"></a>


# Join us!

The Sogin Lab is on the hunt for students, technicians, and post-docs! If you are interested in joining us at [UC Merced](https://www.ucmerced.edu) in the [Molecular & Cellular Biology Department](https://naturalsciences.ucmerced.edu/content/molecular-cell-biology), please get in contact with me. 

I am committed to providing an inclusive environment that welcomes *all* people who are passionate about marine symbioses and microbiology. **Please look at our Lab's [Code of Conduct](/assets/pdfs/lab-code-June2021.pdf), which outlines my promises and expectations for you prior to applying.** 

My leadership philosophy centers around the notion that we all have differing experiences and backgrounds. Diversity in the lab makes us stronger - we can approach the same idea, problem, challenge from different angles. It also creates a need for flexibility in leadership styles. As a student in the lab, **my goal is for you to succeed at your goals**. This means, I am committed to providing the mentorship that each member of the lab needs when they need it. As we evolve as a group and mentor/mentee relationship, I anticipate type of leadership will also change. Which is why I am committed to maintaining an open dialog throughout the course of your time in the lab.  
 

### For interested PhD students: 

The Sogin lab can accept students from the [QSB graduate program](https://qsb.ucmerced.edu). The QSB program guarentees funding for PhD students through TA-ships and GSRs for 5 years. In addition to teaching assistantships, there are a number of [internal](https://graduatedivision.ucmerced.edu/funding/internal) and [external](https://graduatedivision.ucmerced.edu/funding/external) fellowship oppotunities open for incoming and current students.  

A few of my expectations for students entering the lab: 

1. Open communication between student and advisor(s), including co-developing mentorship/mentee plans. 
2. Willingness to contribute to and create a healthy, collaborative atmosphere. Regardless of the program you choose for your Ph.D. it is essential to take care of and maintain your mental health - I am a strong advocate for students to take time off and explore you habitat. 
3. Willingness to co-develop applications for fellowships and grants
4. Desire to become independent in your work and develop your own ideas. It is not necessary for you to start this way, but I want you to become a confident scientist as you progress through your degree and to take ownership of your work

If you are interested in joining the lab please send me an email (esogin at ucmerced.edu) with the following: 

* A brief description of your research interests and how they overlap with the interests of the lab
* A summary of your research experience 
* A CV including professional references and GPA
* If you are eligible to apply for graduate research fellowships (e.g., NSF GRFP, EPA-Star, Nancy Foster, etc.). I ask all prospective graduate students who are eligible to apply; I’m happy to discuss research ideas, comment on application drafts, etc.  
<div class="bigspacer"></div>
<div class="bigspacer"></div>
<div class="bigspacer"></div>





